# CS-305-Software-Security
# Name: Kat Gilliland

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their clients. The financial plans they offer their clients include savings, retirement, investment, and insurance plans. Because Artemis Financial deals with extremely sensitive data (social security numbers or SSNs, contact information, financial documents, etc.,) they have a major responsibility to keep that information safe and secure. For this specific project, Artemis Financial tasked me with helping them to modernize their operations by ensuring that their web-based application is protected from external threats. My objective throughout this project was to utilize a Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow Diagram to identify which areas of security Artemis Financial should focus on to increase software security and to let that information guide my manual review of the provided code base. After manually reviewing the code and documenting my findings (where the vulnerabilities were found within the code base) in the attached vulnerability report, I was able to run a static test on the code base to identify all potential issues in the application and develop a mitigation plan for Artemis Financial to follow in order to resolve these defects.

# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
When I found Artemis Financial's software security vulnerabilities, I was able to utilize the static testing dependency-check I conducted to provide the organization with specific vulnerability codes, a brief description of the issues, and recommend possible solutions to correct them. I personally feel that in this project, I did a great job of highlighting the specific changes that needed to be made in the code base to increase Artemis Financials' software security. For example, in my manual review of the code along with the results from the vulnerability report shared via the dependency-check, I was able to identify an issue involving input validation. To resolve this vulnerability, I suggested to Artemis Financial that they target the GreetingController.java class in their code base and re-work it to include input validation. Input validation is essential to a secure application as it guarantees the information being entered into the system by a user aligns with the type of formatting the system allows. Proper input validation and other secure coding practices (passing data through a header rather than a request, using hashing algorithms for password security, using HTTPS for secure data transmissions, etc.,) offer value to a company's overall well-being by protecting their systems from malicious actors and cybersecurity threats. For instance, if input validation is not properly implemented into an application, the data within that program is at risk for specific cyber-threats such as SQL injection and cross-site scripting (xss) attacks. It is important to code securely not only to protect sensitive data but also to boost the organization's reliablity and overall end-user experience. 

# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
The static testing I conducted through the dependency-check report was extrememly helpful to me as it re-assured that I was focusing on the correct areas of security for Artemis Financials' application (i.e., confirming security concerns over improper input validation). The dependency-check report was also useful in showing the severity of each vulnerability and what concerns would be most crucial for Artemis Financial to resolve. Using the dependency-check report along with my manual review of the code helped me verify what and how each vulnerability should be addressed for a more secure application. 

# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
I increased layers of security in Artemis Financials' web-based application by providing useful insights into their specific system vulnerabilties. I largely assessed each vulnerability and decided which mitigation techniques to use through the dependency-check report. For example, through verification from the dependency-check report and my manual review of the code, I determined that Artemis Financials' API is not secure. To secure communication within their system, I used the insights developed from the report and my own manual code review to suggest that Artemis Financial secure their data transfers via an HTTPS connection. An HTTPS connection utilizes a public-private key pairing to securely transmit data between a browser and server. In the future, I would continue to conduct some form of static testing along with a manual code review to assess a system's unique software vulnerabilities. 

# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
To make certain the code and software application were both functional and secure, after refactoring it, I was able to check and see whether I introduced new vulnerabilities by running an additional dependency-check. A second dependency-check allowed me to verify whether the mitigation techniques I suggested and applied were usefu for the company or if it opened the door for more potential security issues. 

# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
For this project, I constantly referred to the Vulnerability Assessment Process Flow diagram to determine which area of security is most relevant to the application. For instance, Artemis Financial was looking for ways to secure their RESTful API, therefore I knew it would be an important area to analyze for vulnerabilities. Considering the organization's unique scenario and referring to the diagram to determine where the major security concerns lie is a very useful way to begin the development of a mitigation plan and a practice I believe will continue to be helpful as I move on to similar assignments and tasks. 

# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
From this assignment, I would show future employers that I am able to take a company's requirements for a secure system and use that information along with tools such as the dependency-check report to recommend the best coding practices and implementations for their specific software. I would also use this assignment to show the employer that I'm knowledgeable in reading and understanding the results from the dependency-check report as well as able to clearly communicate this information to a non-technical audience. 
